A little background on why: My boyfriend, a much more experience software engineer, encouraged me to send resume out and go for technical interviews looooong ago. I never had the courage to do so. I never attended an actual technical interview before - I transited as an intern to a full time junior software engineer in my previous company. I had no experience for technical interviews and I was <strong> timid. </strong> <br><br>

Somehow at the start of the year, you will get more courage & hope. So I crafted out my resume, contacted a few friends, passed it to them for referrals, googled a few companies that I was interested and sent in my resume. Ta-da, those with referrals replied really quick! I was scheduled for interview really quick. This was the start to <em> hell. </em> This means practicing, studying, annnndd repeat.<br><br> 

I'm embarrassed to mention this... but I graduated with a Computer Science degree in National University of Singapore, my results sucked. My data structures & algorithm class sucked. I failed the most basic class in year 1 and I had to retake it. Which is why, now you can understand, why I'm so afraid to attend technical interviews. Simply because I'm just not technically strong. I didn't slack, I was hardworking, but I was too slow to understand, and I didn't grasp the technique of learning I guess. <br><br>

This time round, it was a little different. My boyfriend became a mentor in my career. He guided me and taught me everything I had to know in a short time. He was quite harsh, and sometimes I was afraid that he will get frustrated (which he did when i repeatedly ask the same thing haha!). More on detailed technical stuff in future blog post perhaps. <br><br>

My very first interview was with a bank, referred by my friend. I attended the interview late January 2019. I remembered I had a sleepless night. It was nerve wrecking. Eventually, the interview turned out to be less technical than I expected. It was a very behavioural sort of interview, which I passed it pretty well. I did get an offer with this company, but compensation wasn't as expected, so I passed on the offer. <br><br>

Subsequently, I had another interview somewhere early Feburary (I had approx. 2 weeks of leetcode practice at that point of time) with a rather well known tech company, also referred by my friend. The interview process was online coding questions, 1 round video technical interview and then onsite. Pretty standard process. My boyfriend told me that I was too rash in sending in my resume for a company I really wanted to join. He was right. I did ok for the online coding questions, I think there were 4 questions, easy hashmaps problem and file i/o stuff, didn't manage to solve 1 math type question. Managed to move on to a phone interview. I wrecked it. lol. It was a very simple binary search question. But obviously, I forgotten / don't know what a binary search was and could only come up with a brute force solution. Didn't receive anything back from the HR. Was so upset. Hated myself for not knowing what's a binary search. Hated myself for trying so hard to be someone that I can't be. <br><br>

I wasn't sure what happened next, but I remember I had multiple online coding questiosn from copmany, which none I managed to pass and get through the next round. Of course, there were companies sending rejection emails after processing my resume too. Countless. After that wave of interview, I stopped. No more interview = no more practice (lazy). Until one day, <strong>Google</strong> replied to my email. They wanted to phone screen me! That was crazy! It's GOOGLE. I asked my boyfriend should I reply, and he said to just try. So.. I started practicing hard again. The phone interview was so straight forward by the HR. It was simple run time questions, one particular language question, tree knowledge blahblah. I passed and get to go for video interview! 